Note: Dad's original email had pics.  Those did not make it in to the file. 

Different people remember different things.  Last evening, I spent some time watching the U. S. Open at Pebble Beach, and it brought back memories.  
               I played a round at Pebble Beach, probably about 1973 or 74.  That year, the Military Operations Research Organization (MORS) was having its annual conference at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey.  (I think Megan took some language training there, right?)  It's a very nice place, and very close to the Pebble Beach golf course.
 

                My boss at GRC, Betty Holz, was scheduled to give a paper at this MORS conference.  As the time approached, she had some health problems, so she asked me to go in her place.  I prepared a paper, and off I went.
                I think the conference was for 3 days.  The morning of the first day was a general session, where some high-level people gave some high-level papers.  My body was still on Eastern time, so I woke up about 4AM.  I called a taxi, and asked for a ride to the Pebble Beach course.  It is a public course; in those days, the greens fees were high, but not like they are today.  I got to the course about as they were opening up, maybe 6AM.  I paid my fees and rented a set of clubs.  There were no caddies yet, so the rules said I had to take a cart.  
                As I watched the U. S. Open last evening, I realized that I couldn't remember too many holes.  Pebble Beach has 6 spectacular ocean-side holes, namely 7, 8, 9, 10, 17, and 18.  I could remember all of these.  The other 12 holes are inland, and many of them seemed quite ordinary in 1973.  There was a time when some said of Pebble Beach, "6 great holes do not make a great course".  I think that, by now, the inland holes have been considerably lengthened and strengthened.
                On to my round.  Playing with my rented clubs, on a course that was wet with morning dew from the ocean, I did not get off to a good start.
                The 7th hole is the first spectacular one.  A very short par 3, heading into the ocean:
 

                Actually a pretty easy hole, if the wind is not blowing.  I hit about a 7 iron, made par.  From there on, I played much better.
                I think the 8th is the best hole on the course.  Par 4, maybe about 380 years from the middle tee, with an uphill drive.  I played it as follows.
 

                I was driving with a 3 wood.  Then hit a 4 wood just over the green on the left side.  I especially remember this shot.  The cliffs are maybe 50 feet down to the ocean.  Up on the fairway, there was a course marshal in a golf cart.  After I played my second shot, he asked me "Did it go into the water?".  I imagine that his job was to discourage golfers who wanted to go down and play a ball that had ended on the cliffs or beach.  I calmly told him "No, I made it across.".  Then I came out of the sand to about 20 feet from the hole, barely missed the putt.  
                I don't remember too much of holes 9 to 16.  I played fairly well; mostly bogeys, a few pars.  I'm pretty sure that I parred 17, which is a memorable par 3 back to the ocean.  (Maybe 190 yards from the middle tees.)
 


                I do remember how I played 18, the famous par 5 along the ocean:
 

                3 wood off tee, 4 wood, 5 iron.  I played it much closer to the left side than I intended, but I made par.
                I also remember my score for the day.  46 on front nine, 42 on back nine, so 88 total.
------------------------------------------------
                Then I took a taxi back to the conference.  I think I was back at the motel before noon; went to the afternoon sessions of the conference, worked like I was supposed to the rest of the time.
---------------------------------------------------------

                As I mentioned at the start, watching on TV last evening, I could not remember a lot of the holes.  So I downloaded the U. S. Open app to my iPhone.  It lets you do a fly-over of each hole.  With this, I could remember several more holes, but still not all of them.
------------------------------------------------------------

                C. S. Lewis wrote an excellent book called (I think) The Four Loves.  One of his 4 loves is friendship.  He says is that friendship is almost always based on some common interest.  He comments that he simply could not have a friendship based on an interest in either chess or golf.  
                I read an article by Jack Nicklaus where he said "Golf is just golf; it's not for everyone."
                But I do have pleasant memories of my round at Pebble Beach.

                                                                                                Love, Dad


